# [Participation 1](https://github.com/hendraanggrian/IIT-CS487/blob/assets/lec1.pdf): Software processes

## Problem 1

> Identify a real-world “gate keeping” scenario.

As a real-world example, I propose code styling and conventions. They are a set
of development guidelines to maximize the team's overall comprehension by
maintaining a codebase blueprint and cleanliness. Coding conventions (or lack
thereof) are often overlooked simply because they are not errors themselves, it
is a matter of fact that the code would still compile albeit with limited
visions or flawed practices.

### Subproblem 1A

> Explain how the gate impedes flow and why.

Applying coding conventions to any project or team may be undesirable for the
obvious reason that it limits growth. This is especially true in the beginning
where there is an expected learning time before even writing any code.

### Subproblem 1B

> Describe design elements which maximize flow.

I believe in moderation where code conventions exist with some degree of
constraints like time (project deadline) and complexity (how many rules are
there).

### Subproblem 1C

> Describe the “authority” which enforces compliance.

In this scenario, the authority is the technical leader whatever his/her
official title is (project manager, scrum manager, etc.). It is the sole
responsibility of the leader to set and monitor the code conventions.

## Problem 2

> Describe one benefit and one drawback of allowing agility in the software
  development process.

- **Benefit**: Promotes growth by prioritizing a working prototype over
  guidelines and pending discussions.
- **Drawback**: The always-changing nature of agility could substantially
  prolong the development time, and in turn, cost.

## Problem 3

> Explain the value of “surfacing” in an iterative development process.

Surface refers to the working sections that are most visible to the end-users
because they require less technical capabilities to understand. They can be in
many forms such as test results, but are most commonly associated with working
prototypes.
