# [Participation 10](https://github.com/hendraanggrian/IIT-CS487/blob/assets/lect11.pdf): Software project management

## Problem 1

> How many cities did your instructor broadcast from during this course? Using
  the concepts of reuse, automation, system components, and protocols, explain
  why you never needed to concern yourself with his broadcast location.

At least 2 cities, if my memory serves me right. What enables us to conduct
remote learning are the reusable studying materials and the supporting
infrastructure behind them, which includes automated systems, hardware
components, and communication protocols.

## Problem 2

> Assess the risk exposure of each of the following:

### Subproblem 2A

> A world in which cars are only driven by humans.

Humans are inefficient drivers, prone to distractions, and often involve
personal feelings or resentment toward other drivers during a commute. The
unpredictable nature of human driving is also disadvantageous to the
environment.

### Subproblem 2B

> A world in which cars are only driven by computers.

The risk of fully trusting computers to drive cars is putting human lives at the
mercy of software algorithms, not under their control. For example, the software
can have biased tendencies about certain user groups. There is also an
underlying debate on who is liable for the eventuality that a malfunction should
happen.

### Subproblem 2C

> A world of both human- and computer-driven cars.

Theoretically, self-driving cars work best with other autonomous vehicles, with
maximum efficiency when cruising at the same speed, unified software experience,
etc. Putting humans back in the wheel diminishes the return.

## Problem 3

> Explain the extent to which the results in #2 match your feelings regarding
  safety.

Let's take the example of computers-only cars where some of the existing risks
have materialized. For example, a security breach or miscalculation caused harm
to human beings. It can only happen numerous times until lose confidence in the
software or the self-driving car as a whole.
