# [Participation 2](https://github.com/hanggrian/IIT-CS487/blob/assets/lect3.pdf): Requirements engineering

## Problem 1

> Describe the role of test case development in improving requirements. Show an
  example to illustrate this improvement.

When developing a relatively large software with multiple team members, it is
common to lose perspective of what the software should be in the long run. The
root of this issue is usually human errors such as misconception, disagreement,
etc.

Keeping track of requirements could help mitigate this issue by acting as shared
guidelines. The requirements are then broken apart into smaller pieces for
structured test cases. The team's overall cohesion is expected to improve as an
outcome of the whole process.

## Problem 2

> Automation is generally beneficial since it promises to save time, effort, and
  money. Discuss the feasibility of automating each of the following software
  engineering activities:
>
> - Requirements engineering
> - Coding
> - Testing
> - Discovering the root cause of a production incident

### Requirements engineering

The requirements are formulated with the users' agreement. For this reason, I
believe it should be solved using as much HHI as possible. Not for the reason
that HCI is not useful, but rather a matter of preference. We as a society tend
to perceive human interaction as more valuable than machines, it is the same
reason we are irritated by robocalls.

### Coding

Modern graphical code editor applications offer code automation to some degree.
For example, plain editors support code completion/suggestion, while
full-fledged IDEs can expect code refactoring. They save time that would have
been redirected to reading documentation on-the-fly, and for that, I consider
them extremely feasible.

In recent light, there is also an AI-generated code solution with the release of
GitHub Copilot, which I find somewhat feasible. It keeps getting smarter over
time as it learns the author's writing preferences. Nevertheless, they are not
free, marred with ethical dillemas, and thus should not be relied upon as the
primary code producer.

### Testing

Testing nowadays is performed in conjunction with other activities, that is
automation by definition. A programmer rarely has to test one case explicitly
when all test cases are already tied to the build script. This feature can also
be extended using a combination of online services (Git and CI/CD hosts) that
automatically triggers test on every contribution.

### Discovering the root cause of a production incident

The term production-related incident is highly ambiguous, that is, the root
cause can be internal or external. An internally-induced incident can be a
design or analytic error, this restricted environment can be feasible for
automation.

It is trickier when it is caused externally like sudden requirements change or
absence of team members. It is impossible to automate endless possibilities of
misfortune events using conventional tools. Perhaps one day an AI solution might
help.

## Problem 3

> Choose any "real-world" example to explain the use of ethnography in the
  analysis and design of software systems.

Only 5% of cars are actively in use, the other 95% occupy parking spaces across
cities.<sup>[\[1\]]</sup> This pretext is routinely promoted by the makers of
self-driving cars to solve our existential environmental challenges. I believe
this research on people's behavior (of leaving their cars unused) counts as a
use of ethnography.

## References

1.  [Fast Company: See Just How Much Of A City’s Land Is Used For Parking Spaces](https://www.fastcompany.com/40441392/see-just-how-much-of-a-citys-land-is-used-for-parking-spaces/)

[\[1\]]: https://www.fastcompany.com/40441392/see-just-how-much-of-a-citys-land-is-used-for-parking-spaces/
