# [Participation 3](https://github.com/hanggrian/IIT-CS487/blob/assets/lect4.pdf): Testing and quality management

## Problem 1

> Discuss the testing process necessary to prove that the IIT registration
  system’s course enrollment function is perfectly "easy to use".

To prove that the IIT course registration system is user-friendly, I propose
several non-technical tests:

- Invite unbiased testers to use the system without any direction given to them.
  Their fluidity in operating the software should be an indicator of how
  user-friendly it is.
- Throw out online trials and collect surveys accordingly. The results are less
  valuable since they are untargeted but cheaper and easier than physical
  invitations.
- Conduct voting to compare IIT and its competitor system, say, UIC. Make sure
  that the producer's vision aligns with the popularity.

I should also note that IIT is at an advantage here since it can be expected
that the users are likely high school-educated, allowing IIT to throw complex
features otherwise confusing to the general public.

## Problem 2

> Explain the challenge in proving such a thing.

Although IIT can design the software as seamlessly as they perceive it to be,
there is ultimately no universal software that fits everyone's needs because
perfectly easy for one user group might differ from another.

## Problem 3

> Rewrite the usability non-functional "requirement" from #1 so that definitive
  testing is more feasible. Explain your improvements.

Instead of measuring users' behaviors during the testing period, IIT should
focus on relevant criteria which define software as user-friendly. So as an
alternative to an open-ended test like a physical invitation in the first
question, IIT could put tangible constraints such as can the students finish the
registration within 10 minutes? Can the website load in under 3 seconds? etc.

## Problem 4

> Explain how each of the following would make achieving this requirement more
  feasible:
>
> - More experienced, better trained engineers.
> - More of them.
> - Design, development, and testing tools.
> - A rapid-prototyping process which involves the users.

### Better engineers

Higher-quality software engineers make the testing process substantially better,
even more so when they have the necessary experience to undertake the project.
Not only they are responsible for the system, but they also write the test cases
that determine whether the system is in order.

### More engineers

More software engineers are somewhat feasible, but only to the extent that they
integrate well into the existing team. Meaning that the new members can be
managed and are culturally fit.

### Alternate tools

Superior design or tools are conducive to a better testing process. But suppose
there are working tools undoubtedly better than the ones currently being
utilized, the feasibility of such alternative tools highly depends on the
engineers' familiarity and adeptness with the tools.

### Rapid prototyping

Rapid prototyping refers to a tendency to prioritize working prototypes, which
in turn incites users' feedback. I presume the prototypes created would be
exceedingly flawed seeing that it is created first surpassing every other phase,
therefore would not be feasible for a testing environment.
