# [Participation 4](https://github.com/hendraanggrian/IIT-CS487/blob/assets/lect5.pdf): Modeling and design

## Problem 1

> Design patterns are "common solutions" to "common problems". Provide examples
  for each of the following contexts:
>
> - Human-to-Computer Interaction
> - Computer-to-Computer Interaction
> - Human-to-Human Interaction
>
> Explain how each of the above solutions has:
>
> - Evolved from uncommon to common
> - Improved quality

### HCI

*Near Field Communication (NFC)* on our phones enables us to communicate with
electronic devices instantly using short wireless connections. They are not to
be confused with *Radio-Frequency IDentification (RFID)*, which also utilizes
radio wave technologies but works passively without a power source.<sup>[\[1\]]</sup>
Nowadays, NFC and RFID are our preferred methods of authentication for mobile
payments and public transportation.

Radio wave technology was introduced as a replacement for magnetic stripes
commonly present in bank-issued cards. Radio wave excels in every category
against magnets, barring the fact that it costs higher to install. Nevertheless,
the death of magnetic stripes is inevitable given data stored in the medium is
analog.

### CCI

Network communication protocols, such as TCP/IP and UDP, establish rules and
composition by which participating computers can exchange messages. There are
also higher-level communication protocols like *REST API* and *GraphQL*. The
technologies mentioned here are pioneers in their respective fields and remain
standards today.

The technologies mentioned here are pioneers in their respective fields and
remain standards today. The adoption of TCP/IP, for example, predates my birth
and I can only imagine how chaos ensued when every computer talk a different
language.<sup>[\[2\]]</sup>

### HHI

Drawing comparison to NFC and RFID, the quickest human interactions are
non-verbal communications, such as facial expressions and hand gestures.

In the context of design patterns, this form of communication serves as a
solution to initiate or expand emotional-based relationships.

## References

1.  Landt, J. (2005). The history of RFID. *IEEE potentials, 24*(4), 8-11.
1.  The Register: 30 years ago, at flip of a switch, the internet as we know it WAS BORN

[\[1\]]: https://www.academia.edu/download/28686813/008.pdf
[\[2\]]: https://www.theregister.com/2013/01/03/operational_internet_anniversary/
