# [Participation 5](https://github.com/hendraanggrian/IIT-CS487/blob/assets/lect6.pdf): Dependability and reliability

## Problem 1

> Write a requirement stating how reliable you want your smartphone to be.

From a consumer standpoint, the primary criterion for my smartphone is it
performs no worse than my previous smartphone under similar usage and ownership
period. The smartphone's performance itself can be broken down into many
sub-categories. However, if there is any area I found my new smartphone to be
inferior, I would deem the entire entity as less reliable.

**Example requirements**:

- Excellent coverage &mdash; Long network range and can withstand a crowded
  environment.
- Physical strength &mdash; Expect the phone to be operable in the upper and
  lower bound of temperatures of the country it is available in. The battery
  lasts half day on a full charge and limited degradation over time.
- Software update &mdash; The phone manufacturer should provide over-the-air
  updates for at least 3 years, an industry standard.

## Problem 2

> Identify your smartphone’s partners (with relation to reliability).

- Phone manufacturers &mdash; The single largest reliability factor is the
  manufacturers themselves. They assemble hardware and maintain software under
  their supervision.
- 3rd party developers &mdash; Controls my favorite apps' content and behavior
  which directly impact my user experience.
- Network providers &mdash; Provide infrastructure and service for smartphones
  to communicate with each other.
- The government &mdash; The very thing that makes a smartphone an actual phone,
  cell towers, are funded by the US government.<sup>[\[1\]]</sup>

## Problem 3

> Describe the interface between your smartphone and each of its partners and
  describe the protocol needed to support each interface.

Integral components of any smartphone are the modem and router, responsible for
wirelessly transmitting and receiving data via cellular and WiFi, respectively.
They travel to the nearest available connection hub, which in turn, transports
them to the data repository managed by third-party developers.

## Problem 4

> Assess the risk exposure associated with your smartphone failing to achieve
  the reliability stated in #1, and explain the dependency on the partners.

- Communication breakdown &rarr; Loss of information &mdash; Inability to share
  knowledge set us back several decades.
- Disappointing hardware &rarr; Stunted technology growth &mdash; The smartphone
  industry relies on annual incremental improvement to attract consumers.
- Abandoned software &rarr; Lower consumer confidence &mdash; Circulating bad
  reputation and public perception.

## Problem 5

> Describe an exception which would prevent your smartphone from providing you
  with acceptable service. How could your smartphone detect and handle the
  exception such that adequate service is still provided?

- Network distortion &mdash; If this happens during ongoing communication, a
  smartphone should remember the last state and pending messages to retrieve
  later.
- Battery critically low &mdash; Disable power-hungry apps to only provide SOS
  service.

## References

1. [FCC: 5G Fund](https://www.fcc.gov/5g-fund/)

[\[1\]]: https://www.fcc.gov/5g-fund/
