# [Participation 6](https://github.com/hendraanggrian/IIT-CS487/blob/assets/lect7.pdf): Automation and reuse

> With relation to the *Ariane 5* case.

## Problem 1

> Use pseudocode to show the flow of the automated navigation process at issue
  in the case.

The idea is to repeat endlessly until the current and final position is within
range of tolerance, the function repeats itself in 100 milliseconds.

```kotlin
val finalPosition: Point // landing coordinate of rocket
val tolerance: Double // position difference tolerance

fun getPosition(rocket: Ariane5): Point
fun getVelocity(rocket: Ariane5): Velocity
fun setTrajectory(position: Point, velocity: Velocity)

fun launch(rocket: Ariane5) {
  var position = getPosition(rocket)
  var velocity
  while (abs(position - finalPosition) > tolerance) {
    position = getPosition(rocket)
    velocity = getVelocity(rocket)
    setTrajectory(position, velocity)
    sleep(100)
  }
}
```

## Problem 2

> Use risk assessment to justify the decision to reuse the *Ariane 4* navigation
  system.

The decision to reuse proven software from the last iteration is a sound one
considering Ariane 4 was ESA's most successful rocket at the time of Ariane 5
conception. Creating the software from the ground up is not feasible, not only
due to the sheer size of the project but also because the certified tests from
the previous software are no longer valid.

With that in mind, if we are to blame Ariane 4's software for the misfortunate
flight V88, we should also estimate possible accidents had ESA chosen not to
reuse it. The responsibilities, in my opinion, lie with the engineers that did
not thoroughly test their product and the researchers that fail to foresee this
event.

## Problem 3

> Use pseudocode to describe an exception manager which would have helped avoid
  the explosive result.

A thorough study has pinpointed the velocity bug to be the culprit of the V88
crash.<sup>[\[1\]]</sup> Therefore, throw an out-of-range exception if the speed
is exceedingly high.

```kotlin
const val SPEED_LIMIT: Double

fun getVelocity(rocket: Ariane5): Velocity {
  // ...
  var speed: Double
  if (speed > SPEED_LIMIT) {
    throw OutOfRangeException()
  }
  return Velocity(cardinal, speed)
}
```

Surround the function with try-catch, use the last velocity if an exception is
caught.

```kotlin
var velocity
try {
  velocity = getVelocity(rocket)
} catch (e: Exception) {
  velocity = lastVelocity
}
setTrajectory(position, velocity)
```

## Problem 4

> Describe a set of test cases which would have identified the design flaw
  during reactive testing.

- Constrain the velocity speed: Upon transmitting the value to the navigational
  system, there should have been a check that such value is in the desired
  range.
- Check cardinal direction: For example, throw an exception if the direction
  changes more than 45 degrees of rotation.

## Problem 5

> Describe a specific proactive activity which would have prevented the
  explosive result.

- Test the rocket component individually: Since every little thing could
  snowball, every feature must be fault-free before testing the rocket as a
  whole.
- Appoint a board of code reviewers: There are reports of irrelevant code from
  the relics of Ariane 4 in the early versions of Ariane 5. This is completely
  avoidable with more manpower.

## References

1.  [Lions, J. L., Luebeck, L., Fauquembergue, J. L., Kahn, G., Kubbat, W., Levedag, S., ... & O’Halloran, C. (1996). Ariane 5 flight 501 failure report by the inquiry board.](https://www.csm.ornl.gov/~sheldon/cs422/ariane5fr.html)

[\[1\]]: https://www.csm.ornl.gov/~sheldon/cs422/ariane5fr.html
