# [Participation 7](https://github.com/hendraanggrian/IIT-CS487/blob/assets/lect8.pdf): Service-oriented architecture (SOA) and embedded software

## Problem 1

> Use any “real world” example to illustrate the interactions involved in
  non-computer (HHI) service providing.

One example of an HHI service provider is a restaurant worker that interacts
with a customer: A server or waiter. They publish their work to the service
registry by handling food and serving customers. Although nowadays, restaurant
order is bound to be helped by some form of computer (not purely human-to-
human).

## Problem 2

> Explain how service-oriented architecture is a form of reuse.

SOA was conceptualized with the idea that as a project size is getting larger
and more complex, one problem has likely been solved with many solutions in
different parts of the project.<sup>[\[1\]]</sup> SOA introduces a protocol in
which each device can communicate and reuse the solution to achieve maximum
efficiency.

## Problem 3

> Discuss the relationship between service-level agreements and the requirements
  for a service-oriented system under development.

SOA defines how software can be published, delivered, and consumed in a
service-oriented system (SOS). To safely (and justly) conduct transactions
within the system, a service-level agreement (SLA) works as a consensus between
service providers and customers. SLA is typically legally binding and
represented in contracts.

In the context of a system under development, it is arguably the best time to
negotiate an agreement seeing that there is no transaction yet. While it is
still possible to renegotiate in ongoing production, negotiating prior gives
more flexibility.

## Problem 4

> Describe the context model of an embedded system – provide an example to
  illustrate.

Based on my limited knowledge, a context model refers to an embedded system's
understanding of its environment and how it reacts. It is a concept rather than
a tangible object, like an embedded system's CPU.

One of the most common examples of embedded hardware is WiFi-powered smart
speakers (*Amazon Echo*, *Google Nest*, etc.). They constantly listen to their
surroundings for a trigger call, process a result, and responds by transmitting
back audio wave.

## Problem 5

> Use any example to illustrate the mechanisms by which an embedded system gains
  “awareness”.

An embedded system relies on a sensor's reading capabilities, motors to move
around, and internal software to process the result. Going back to the example
of smart speakers, they are constantly waiting until a certain sequence of words
is spoken. They will only activate if we trigger their sensor, which in this
case is a microphone.

## References

1. [Laskey, K. B., & Laskey, K. (2009). Service oriented architecture. *Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Computational Statistics, 1*(1), 101-105.](https://wires.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1002/wics.8/)

[\[1\]]: https://wires.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1002/wics.8/
