# [Participation 8](https://github.com/hendraanggrian/IIT-CS487/blob/assets/lect9.pdf): Human-Computer Interaction (HCI)

## Problem 1

> Quantify your awareness of the various levels supporting your use of an
  application – the point of your interaction (HCI) down to low level (automated
  / CCI) memory fetches, CPU execution cycles, etc.

When we use an internet-connected app on our mobile phones, it regularly sends
network requests to the central server using an API.

For example, when we order a food delivery service, it needs at least 4
requests. The first is listing all open restaurants, the second is listing foods
a restaurant serve, the third is submitting user selection, and the last is
authenticating payment. And there goes my poor attempt at quantifying the CCI
interaction.

## Problem 2

> How is an alarm clock aware that you have an important appointment? How is it
  aware of your awareness?

A basic alarm clock &mdash; presumably digital &mdash; makes use of its
microcontroller to track time, project result to display, store user alarms, and
trigger the sound. Its sense of awareness is related to remembering
user-assigned alarms that are within its hardware capability.

Nowadays, time services such as alarms are bundled with other productivity
management services like email, calendar, and tasks (*Google Gmail*, *Microsoft
Outlook*, etc.). It gives the computer more access points to detect user
appointments.

## Problem 3

> Chicago has a vast array of automated red-light cameras to catch violators.
  Discuss the extent to which the red-light camera is aware of a violator’s
  situation.

Red-light camera, unlike a regular camera, is usually equipped with a speed
sensor to capture vehicle motion in real-time. Without it, the software managing
the cameras would have to assess the video feeds to look for violators.

Self-driving cars have sensors too, arguably much more depending on which
autonomous level it is classified as.<sup>[\[1\]]</sup> Cameras, radars, and
software work together to sense the car's surroundings and make decisions based
on the given rules of the road it is trained on.

## Problem 4

> Explain the risk associated with a decision-maker who has a lot of confidence,
  but low awareness.

In the spirit of autonomous vehicles, I'm drawing an example of a self-driving
car with state-of-the-art software but inadequate sensors. This particular
vehicle must devise a decision based on the limited or false information
available.

The outcome is bound to be flawed, which at some point will cause unintended
harm. Users likely lose confidence after such an experience.

## Problem 5

> Discuss SA as a metric for removing ambiguity from user experience
  non-functional requirement.

*Situational awareness (SA)* refers to an entity's adaptability to a changing
environment, problem description, or other considerations.

Non-functional features required by users are often ambiguous in their
definition. SA could help settle this ambiguity by providing relevant use cases
to consider, usually a narrowed-down version meant to navigate the user's
thoughts.

## References

1. [PC Mag: Is Your Car Autonomous? The 6 Levels of Self-Driving Explained](https://www.pcmag.com/how-to/6-levels-of-autonomous-self-driving-explained/)

[\[1\]]: https://www.pcmag.com/how-to/6-levels-of-autonomous-self-driving-explained/
