# [Participation 9](https://github.com/hendraanggrian/IIT-CS487/blob/assets/lect10.pdf): Situational awareness (SA) and user-centered design (UCD)

## Problem 1

> Describe the alarm/alert design of a mission critical automated system of your
  choosing.

The smart home adoption rate has seen a dramatic increase in recent years,
thanks in part because of decreasing cost and device interoperability across
manufacturers, giving customers the freedom to choose their preferred platform.<sup>[\[1\]]</sup>
I consider the smart home system mission-critical as it directly affects the
health of occupants.

### Subproblem 1A

> How does the system become aware of the "alarming" situation?

An example of an alarming situation in a residential house is a fire emergency,
say, a propane tank blew up. A network-connected smoke-detecting sensor should
pick up the fire smog, though how fast it depends on the sensor's proximity to
the explosion. This sequence triggers the home system emergency state.

### Subproblem 1B

> How does it make humans aware of the situation?

Every device under the control of the automated home system with the capability
to alert humans could do so in their surrounding environment. A speaker should
play the fire alarm at maximum volume, a lighting bulb blinks light ominously,
and a telephone ringing to external services.

### Subproblem 1C

> Does it assess the awareness of the humans? If so, how? If not, is that OK?

The home system could theoretically assess human awareness given that it has
more sophisticated equipment like a movement-tracking camera and proximity
sensor, although I have yet to see one in action. Some population of people may
feel uneasy being surrounded by cameras, so I think it is okay to disable
computer awareness.

## Problem 2

> Describe the "costs" associated with UCD and use risk assessment to show that
  they are "worth it".

*User-centered design (UCD)* is a software development approach that prioritizes
user experience and opinions above everything else. The repercussions are clear,
the development team is risking time and money to satisfy user requirements that
are often unclear and changing.

It is difficult to say whether this method is worth it. When you measure by
efficiency, UCD benefits are almost always lesser than the efforts put in.
Surely it keeps users happy, but you can't measure happiness. Some risk
assessment and common sense could settle the argument.

## Problem 3

> Discuss the connection between user categorization and UCD.

User categorization is helpful for the development team to understand user
tendencies and expectations, allowing them to deliver a better product on the
next iteration. For example, if the majority of mobile app users are elderly
citizens, it is wise to opt for larger graphical controls.

## References

1.  [ValuePenguin: 65% of Americans Have a Smart Home Device, Especially Those Concerned About Climate Change](https://www.valuepenguin.com/two-thirds-americans-own-smart-home-device/)

[\[1\]]: https://www.valuepenguin.com/two-thirds-americans-own-smart-home-device/
